LoadRunner Professional Integration Tile (#2284)
DataDog/integrations-extras: loadrunner_professional/README.md

# LoadRunner Professional

## Overview

OpenText™ LoadRunner Professional is a load testing solution that enables you to test the performance of diverse application types, and identify and resolve issues before applications go live.

LoadRunner Controller is a tool for creating and controlling LoadRunner Professional scenarios. A scenario defines the events that occur during each testing session. It controls the number of users to emulate (virtual users, or Vusers), the actions they perform, and the machines on which they run their emulations. You use scenarios to create load tests to check the reliability and strength of your servers.

With this integration, Controller pushes real-time metrics and data from scenario runs to Datadog.

|   |   |
|---|---|

> |__Send scenario information__| Send information about the scenario run, such as the start and stop time, duration, and included scripts. |

Reviewer: Is the "information" described here sent in the form of logs? If so, i'd mention that explicitly. If not, would be helpful to mention in the Overview what the value of the submitted logs are

|__Send run information__| Send metrics from the scenario run, such as Vuser status and transaction response times. |

## Setup

Configure LoadRunner Controller to push data to Datadog. You can choose whether to send scenario information, run metrics, or both. Once configured, this integration provides a Datadog dashboard to view the data in pre-configured widgets.

1.	In the Controller toolbar, select __Tools > Datadog Configuration__.
2.	In the __Site__ field, select your [Datadog site][6].
3.	In the __API Key__ field, enter the [API key][7] generated by Datadog.
4.	Click __Test Connection__.
5.	Once the connection is successful, select whether to send scenario information, run information, or both to Datadog.

> 6.	If you enable Controller to send scenario information, install the __LoadRunner Run Info Pipeline__ in Datadog to ensure that tags are applied to the scenario information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. If you enable Controller to send scenario information, the included log pipeline with this integration will automatically process your logs and add relevant tags. For more specifics on the pipeline, navigate to Logs > Pipelines in Datadog.
```

# LoadRunner Professional

## Overview

> OpenText™ LoadRunner Professional is a load testing solution that enables you to test the performance of diverse application types, and identify and resolve issues before applications go live.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenText™ LoadRunner Professional is a load testing solution that enables you to test the performance of diverse application types to identify and resolve issues before applications go live.
```

> OpenText™ LoadRunner Professional provides a load testing solution that enables you to test the performance of diverse application types, and to identify and resolve issues before applications go live.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenText™ LoadRunner Professional is a load testing solution that enables you to test the performance of diverse application types, and identify and resolve issues before applications go live.
```

LoadRunner Controller is a tool for creating and controlling LoadRunner Professional scenarios. A scenario defines the events that occur during each testing session. It controls the number of users to emulate (virtual users, or Vusers), the actions they perform, and the machines on which they run their emulations. You use scenarios to create load tests to check the reliability and strength of your servers.

> You can configure Controller to push real-time metrics and data from scenario runs to Datadog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this integration, Controller pushes real-time metrics and data from scenario runs to Datadog.
```

> 

Reviewer: Could you add another sentence or two here describing the metrics and data that's being sent in? i.e. is it performance data, is it metrics/logs/alerts/something else?

Author: i added the table from below

## Setup

> Configure LoadRunner Controller to push data to Datadog. You can choose whether to send scenario information and/or run metrics. In Datadog, you can install a dashboard to view the data in pre-configured widgets.

Reviewer: It would be helpful to elaborate in the Overview section on what scenario information vs. run metrics are

Author: added the table from below to Overview section

> Configure LoadRunner Controller to push data to Datadog. You can choose whether to send scenario information and/or run metrics. In Datadog, you can install a dashboard to view the data in pre-configured widgets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure LoadRunner Controller to push data to Datadog. You can choose whether to send scenario information and/or run metrics. Once configured, this integration provides a Datadog dashboard to view the data in pre-configured widgets.
```

> Configure LoadRunner Controller to push data to Datadog. You can choose whether to send scenario information and/or run metrics. In Datadog, you can install a dashboard to view the data in pre-configured widgets.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Configure LoadRunner Controller to push data to Datadog. You can choose whether to send scenario information, run metrics, or both. In Datadog, you can install a dashboard to view the data in pre-configured widgets.
```

Reviewer 3: Adding this suggestion for accessibility. If possible, could you please similarly update anywhere that uses `and/or` to clarify?

> 1.	In the Controller toolbar, select __Tools > Datadog Configuration__.

Reviewer: Since users will be reading this from the Datadog app (or Datadog docs) it would be useful to add another first step here to navigate to the LoadRunner platform (and a link).

Author: LoadRunner Controller is a desktop application, maybe a first step saying something like "open Controller"?

Reviewer: Yes that would be helpful!

> 2.	In the __Site__ field, select the region defined in your Datadog account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.	In the __Site__ field, select your [Datadog site][6].
```

> 3.	In the __API Key__ field, enter the API key generated by Datadog.

Reviewer: May want to link to our docs here on how to create an api key: https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/api-app-keys/#add-an-api-key-or-client-token

4.	Click __Test Connection__.
5.	Once the connection is successful, select whether to send scenario information and/or run information to Datadog:

|   |   |
|---|---|
|__Send scenario information__| Send information about the scenario run, such as the start and stop time, duration, and included scripts. |

> |__Send run information__| Send metrics from the scenario run, such as Vuser status and transaction response times. |

Reviewer: This would be helpful to add in the Overview section instead

> 6.	Once the connection is successful, select whether to send scenario information, run information, or both to Datadog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6.	Once the connection is successful, choose whether to send scenario information, run information, or both to Datadog.
```

> 6.	If you enable Controller to send scenario information, install the __LoadRunner Run Info Pipeline__ in Datadog to ensure that tags are applied to the scenario information.

Reviewer: How does a user install the LoadRunner Run Info Pipeline?

Author: I am refering to the LoadRunner log pipeline that will be available in DataDog here. Maybe put the link form Datadog Docs on how to install a log pipeline?

Reviewer: Ah i see - updated my suggestion below

> 7.	If you enable Controller to send scenario information, the included log pipeline with this integration will automatically process your logs and add relevant tags. For more specifics on the pipeline, navigate to Logs > Pipelines in Datadog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7.	If you enable Controller to send scenario information, the included log pipeline with this integration automatically processes your logs and adds relevant tags. For more specifics on the pipeline, navigate to Logs > Pipelines in Datadog.
```

> 7.	Optionally, in Datadog, install the __LoadRunner Stats__ dashboard. The dashboard includes widgets that display run information and scenario information (depending on the data that Controller is configured to send). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. In Datadog, the __LoadRunner Stats__ dashboard will automatically be installed with the integration. The dashboard includes widgets that display run information and scenario information (depending on the data that Controller is configured to send). 
```

> When you run a Controller scenario, the data is displayed in the dashboard widgets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Don't think this sentence is needed with context above

> 8.	In Datadog, the __LoadRunner Stats__ dashboard will automatically be installed with the integration. The dashboard includes widgets that display run information and scenario information (depending on the data that Controller is configured to send).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8.	In Datadog, the __LoadRunner Stats__ dashboard is automatically installed with the integration. The dashboard includes widgets that display run information and scenario information (depending on the data that Controller is configured to send).
```

Once Controller has been configured to push data to Datadog, the data is pushed each time you run a scenario in Controller. To disable Controller from pushing data to Datadog, select __Tools > Datadog Configuration__ and clear the fields in the Datadog Configuration dialog box.

![Datadog Configuration Window][2]

## Data Collected

### Metrics

See [metadata.csv][5] for a list of metrics provided by this integration.

### Service Checks

LoadRunner Professional does not include any service checks.

### Events

LoadRunner Professional does not include any events.

## Troubleshooting

Need help? See [LoadRunner Professional docs][4] or contact [Datadog support][3].

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
[2]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/master/loadrunner_professional/images/datadog_configuration_window.png
[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/
[4]: https://admhelp.microfocus.com/lr

> [5]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/loadrunner_professional/metadata.csv

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[5]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/loadrunner_professional/metadata.csv
[6]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/
```
